Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture I just want to give you guys a quick reminder
that and a lot of you are probably looking at this blank canvas wondering what do I even do.
I have no idea where to start now.
Don't be afraid.
That is what everyone feels like right now.
A lot of times good I get into wireframe I sat down and I'll look at it and I have a lot of training
and experience in X UI user Flo's process flows things like that.
Project management and even when I sit down and a look at a blank canvas like this my mind kind of just
goes where do I even start right now.
I'm just making this really short lecture just to show you the way that I get myself out of this kind
of right where I don't even know what I'm supposed to be doing right now where to start.
It's kind of the dilemma of the painter when you have an empty canvas.
What do you even start with.
Now the way that I get out of it and I've seen other people suggest similar techniques is to start with
really simple things that are not very risky and things that you know are going to go on there anyway.
Things that will help you shape the way the page looks that are very standard and very generic.
Luckily the vast majority of Web sites all have the same elements in them.
So where I always do is the first thing I do since this is a web page now is a little bit different
with mobile but this is Web quite literally the logo is almost always in the top left of your page.
So go and grab an image placeholder.
There you go.
Now that's your logo.
OK.
Throw some text on it.
Mind yourself that it's the logo.
And OK great right now.
Now what exactly do I do.
OK the next thing you can do is almost every single Web site is going to have a header bar of some kind.
Sometimes it's a long header that encapsulates the logo.
Sometimes it's a bar underneath the logo really kind of just a pen.
So you know here's an example of one barm of the other one.
Here's one you can see how this is the entire bar at the top logo and then whatever you want but still
they still have this navigation bar Rick.
Here we have all the sections of the application.
Here's another example of one that another bar again.
They have a big search bar and then over here is the actual navigation and a little bit over here.
Those are a little bit different.
It's not weird at all to see standard like this where it's logo.
And then a bar underneath it and also has a bar on top.
When you start building large web applications you'll start adding tons and tons of this stuff everywhere.
It gets a little bit more complicated you have more sections you need to take care of but at the very
beginning you can literally just start with a bar right underneath it.
And this is typically how I like to start and then later I can kind of step back and think about whether
or not I care what the bar design looks like.
It's also something that your graphic designer is probably going to care about more.
OK and then literally if you want to I mean there's other ways you can do this.
You can then section it out by all of the different pages in your app but you can use these tabs over
here if you want.
TAB TAB TAB but that's how I generally like to start.
There's a little bit ugly what you could do is use lines right here like he's a vertical line to just
segment these and then do text instead.
That's one way of doing it.
Yeah I mean you could do like that and then just put text that's multiple different ways of doing this.
The third thing I like to do is just copy this paste and then put it to the bottom of the footer.
You will always have a footer where like you put your contact information your business location and
a list of the other pages that you can access that aren't immediately accessible directly from the top
bar.
And so when you saw this when we sketched out in person on paper that we started with the same basic
elements and the same rules apply to this.
OK.
So now I haven't actually done anything and I did this for almost every single app that I do.
Now it makes it a lot easier and then I can start pulling up my scope documents and start looking at
what are the goals what are the scope cut and get a decent idea of whatever it is that I think needs
to go on the page.
And then I can really just start jumping into it now as opposed to dealing with this whole space that's
a big wide and scary really dealing with this area right here.
It's much much more confined.
Guys don't worry too much if you're moving too slowly at first it's very hard to kind of conceptualize
what you're doing.
My best advice is to take your list of comparable functions and look at the Web sites that you pect
and then go and look at them and just see how they use it.
It'll jog your memory.
You'll figure out pretty quickly you know oh it's usual that there's a big image here text below it
followed by multiple images or you'll find some kind of lay out that you're happy with.
Don't overthink it just get it on the page once it's on the page is much easier to rearrange then compared
to you putting it on the page.
Perfect the first time.
All right guys I'll see you in the next lecture.